YTURL(1)                    General Commands Manual                   YTURL(1)



NAME
       yturl - get direct URLs to YouTube videos


SYNOPSIS
       yturl videoid [itag [itag ...]]


EXAMPLES
       Watch a video of Bill Gates jumping over a chair:

              mplayer "$(yturl 'http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KxaCOHT0pmI')"


ARGUMENTS
       videoid
              The video ID to get information about. This can also be a URL in
              a recognised format. Any official  YouTube  URL  (including  one
              from  alternative services like youtu.be) should be successfully
              parsed, as well as many more unofficial services (although these
              are not guaranteed).

       itag   The  itag(s) to use. Depending on the number of itags specified,
              different format selection methods may  be  used  (see  "QUALITY
              SELECTION").


OPTIONS
       -i, --itag-file ITAGFILE
              Alternative  itag  data  file  to  use.  By  default, yturl uses
              /etc/yturl/itags.


QUALITY SELECTION
       If no itags are specified on the command line, yturl will get a URL  to
       the highest quality format available.

       If  a  single itag is specified on the command line, yturl will attempt
       to get the URL to a video in that format, or failing that,  as  closely
       resembling that format as is available.

       If  multiple  itags are specified on the command line, yturl will first
       try to get the URL to one of the formats specified on the command  line
       (in  order  of  arguments). If none of them are available, it will then
       select the highest quality video available.

       Format quality order is determined by  (in  order)  the  maximum  video
       dimensions,  the  maximum  video bitrate, the maximum audio bitrate and
       the maximum audio sample rate.


AUTHORS
       Christopher Down <chris at chrisdown dot name>



                                                                      YTURL(1)
